nearly 50 tons of space debris crash
onto the earth every day
while some debris shyly dissipate into
the atmosphere
others display
a spectacular light show
meteor showers occur when the earth's
orbit intersects with the orbit of a
comet
as comets travel they leave behind
trails of rocky material often times the
size of pebbles or grains of sand but
sometimes as large as boulders
every year the earth crosses these
trails of debris known as meteoroid
streams and the planet becomes sprinkled
with rocky material
the debris then race through the earth's
atmosphere creating friction with air
particles and generating vast amounts of
heat
this heat vaporizes and illuminates the
debris as they fall creating streaks of
light in the sky popularly known as
shooting stars
these celestial light shows are often
named after the constellation where they
appear to originate as seen from earth's
surface
meteor showers that seem to fall from
the constellation perseus are called the
perseids and those appearing from the
constellation gemini are called the
geminids
about 30 meteor showers can be seen from
earth throughout the course of a year
and because the showers are timed with
earth's orbit the celestial phenomena
are cyclical and occur at regular
intervals
for example the perseid meteor shower
happens every august and the geminid
meteor shower happens every december
meteor showers have inspired awe and
admiration for millennia
in christian tradition the perseid
meteor showers symbolize the tears of a
saint saint lawrence who was executed in
august of the year 258
and in the first century a.d the
astronomer ptolemy believed that
shooting stars were a sign of the gods
looking upon mortals and listening to
their wishes
inspiring everything from making wishes
to reveling at the sky
meteor showers are a reminder of our
place in a dynamic and beautiful cosmic
ecosystem
[Music]
you